---
play_number: 8
title: Choose a modern technology stack
---

The technology decisions we make need to enable development teams to work efficiently and enable services to scale easily and cost-effectively. Our choices for hosting infrastructure, databases, software frameworks, programming languages and the rest of the technology stack should seek to avoid vendor lock-in and match what successful modern consumer and enterprise software companies would choose today. In particular, digital services teams should consider using open source, cloud-based, and commodity solutions across the technology stack, because of their widespread adoption and support by successful consumer and enterprise technology companies in the private sector.

### Checklist
1. Choose software frameworks that are commonly used by private-sector companies creating similar services
2. Whenever possible, ensure that software can be deployed on a variety of commodity hardware types
3. Ensure that each project has clear, understandable instructions for setting up a local development environment, and that team members can be quickly added or removed from projects
4. [Consider open source software solutions](http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/egov_docs/memotociostechnologyneutrality.pdf) at every layer of the stack
5. All systems must be interoperable.¬†Interoperability¬†(the ability to exchange and use information) between cloud computing products and services is¬†required¬†for unfettered competition between vendors and unrestricted choice for users.
6. Systems should not have barriers to come or go. Users must be able to come (no barriers to entry) and go (no barriers to exit) regardless of who they are (no discrimination) and what systems they use (technological neutrality).
7. Supporting vendors must therefore cooperate on standards, implementing those that exist (where applicable) and collaborating via an open process to develop those that don’t, with a view to competing fairly on quality.
8. Improve entrepreneurial opportunities¬†for students and existing developers to create software solutions that positively impact social and economic conditions.

### Key Questions
- What is your development stack and why did you choose it?
- Which databases are you using and why did you choose them?
- How long does it take for a new team member to start developing?

Trello, slack, integrate
https://trello.com/platforms/slack

How to build data iteratively?
http://www.collaborative.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/best-practices-for-applying-agile-techniques-to-data-warehouses-WP.IM_.130.pdf
